fix(experiments): update data warehouse documentation. (#16824)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/experiments/data-warehouse.mdx

---
title: Using Data Warehouse tables in Experiments
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

import { CalloutBox } from 'components/Docs/CalloutBox'
import { ProductScreenshot } from 'components/ProductScreenshot'

> If you have event-like data in a [Data Warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse) table (e.g., purchases, subscriptions, usage records), you can use it directly as a [metric](/docs/experiments/metrics) in your experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have event-like data such as purchases, subscriptions, and usage records in a [Data Warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse) table, you can use it directly as a [metric](/docs/experiments/metrics) in your experiment.
```

> This enables you to measure how PostHog Feature Flags impact outcomes tracked in your external systems – for example, measuring how a checkout redesign affects completed orders stored in your Stripe or Shopify data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enables you to measure how PostHog Feature Flags impact outcomes tracked in your external systems. For example, you can measure how a checkout redesign affects completed orders stored in your Stripe or Shopify data.
```

The join key system bridges PostHog events with your external data:

1. **Events join key** extracts an identifier from PostHog events (e.g., `properties.$user_id` → `"user_123"`)
2. **Data Warehouse join key** queries your table using that identifier (e.g., `WHERE user_id = "user_123"`)
3. PostHog attributes the Data Warehouse rows to the experiment variant you were exposed to

### Common join key patterns

| Scenario | Events join key | Data Warehouse join key |
|----------|----------------|-------------------------|
| User ID in properties | `properties.$user_id` | `user_id` |
| Email as identifier | `properties.$email` | `email` |
| Using distinct_id directly | `distinct_id` | `posthog_distinct_id` |
| Session-based | `properties.$session_id` | `session_id` |

## Supported metric types

| Metric type | Supported | Notes |
|------------|-----------|-------|
| Mean | Yes | Count, sum, average, min, max aggregations |
| Ratio | Yes | Both numerator and denominator can be Data Warehouse tables |
| Retention | Yes | Both start and completion events can be Data Warehouse tables |
| Funnel | Yes | With limitations (see below) |

## Using Data Warehouse tables in funnels

> You can include Data Warehouse tables as steps in funnel metrics. For example, measuring a funnel from viewing a product page (PostHog event) → adding to cart (PostHog event) → completing purchase (Data Warehouse table).

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
You can include Data Warehouse tables as steps in funnel metrics. For example, measuring a funnel from viewing a product page:

```
 (PostHog event) → adding to cart (PostHog event) → completing purchase (Data Warehouse table).
```
``````

Some added visual separation.

Reviewer: btw we have mermaid diagrams if you'd like to use it (make claude convert it ;))

Author: excellent! I love mermaid diagrams. I use them all the time on my more architectural PRs.

</CalloutBox>

### Limitations

Data Warehouse funnel steps have the following limitations:

- **Maximum 3 Data Warehouse steps** per funnel – This prevents expensive queries. If you need more steps, create a materialized view combining multiple tables.

- **Maximum 2 distinct Data Warehouse tables** – This reduces query complexity. Create a view joining multiple tables if needed.

- **Same events join key required** – All Data Warehouse steps must extract your identifier from the same PostHog event property.

These limits ensure queries remain performant while enabling cross-system funnel analysis.

## How PostHog processes Data Warehouse metrics

Understanding the technical implementation helps debug issues and optimize performance.

### Query execution

PostHog uses different query patterns depending on the metric type:

**Mean, ratio, and retention metrics:**
- PostHog joins your Data Warehouse table to the experiment's exposure data
- Applies the conversion window to filter rows occurring after exposure
- Aggregates values per variant

**Funnel metrics with Data Warehouse steps:**

> - PostHog uses a UNION ALL pattern to combine PostHog events with Data Warehouse tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- PostHog uses a `UNION ALL` pattern to combine PostHog events with Data Warehouse tables
```

**Problem:** Users are exposed to your experiment but their Data Warehouse rows aren't being attributed.

**Solution:** Check that:

- Values are formatted identically (e.g., both use lowercase emails or both have the same prefix)
- The events join key extracts the correct property (use [Data Management](https://app.posthog.com/data-management/events) to inspect event structure)
- Your Data Warehouse table actually contains the identifier (query your table directly to verify)

### Funnel validation errors

**Problem:** You see an error when adding Data Warehouse steps to a funnel.

**Common errors and solutions:**

| Error | Cause | Solution |
|-------|-------|----------|
| "events_join_key is required" | Missing configuration | Add the events join key field to your Data Warehouse step |
| "Step X uses properties.$user_id but Step Y uses properties.$email" | Inconsistent join keys | Use the same events join key for all Data Warehouse steps |
| "Maximum 3 Data Warehouse steps exceeded" | Too many steps | Create a materialized view combining tables, or remove steps |
| "Maximum 2 distinct tables exceeded" | Too many tables | Create a view joining the tables |

## Best practices

> 1. **Use consistent identifiers** – If possible, use the same identifier across all your systems (e.g., always use email or always use user_id). This makes join keys simpler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Use consistent identifiers** – If possible, use the same identifier across all your systems (e.g., always use email or always use `user_id`). This makes join keys simpler.
```
